docs: Create 0.12.0 release notes (#2926)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/release-notes/v0_12_0.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: v0.12.0
description: |-
  Boundary release notes for v0.12.0
---

# Boundary v0.12.0

The release notes below contain information about new functionality available in the Boundary v0.12.0 release.
To see a granular record of when each item was merged into the Boundary project, please refer to the [Changelog](https://github.com/hashicorp/boundary/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
To learn about what Boundary consists of, we highly recommend you review the [Getting Started Page](/boundary/docs/getting-started).

For instructions on how to upgrade an existing Boundary deployment to v0.12.0, refer to Boundary's [general upgrade guide](/boundary/tutorials/oss-configuration/upgrade-version).

## Boundary v0.12.0 highlights

The 0.12.0 release adds major new functionality to Boundary.
Highlights include:

- Addresses on targets
- Authentication improvements

## New features

**Addresses on targets**: HashiCorp Boundary offers an extensible domain model that allows administrators to organize target resources in a way that best compliments how their organization manages its computing infrastructure.

> However, that flexibility could sometimes become a hindrance when it comes to setting up a quick proof-of-concept, and defining a target to create a session.

Reviewer: I don't want to argue over comma placement too much in a PR review, but I'm going to mark a few suggestions for comma removal that you can ignore if you'd like. 

I find that commas are often overused or used incorrectly in most technical writing, and make the text harder to read. Let's have a discussion about this offline sometime 💟

```suggestion
But that flexibility could become a hindrance when setting up a quick proof-of-concept and defining a target to create a session.
```

> With version 0.12.0, we are introducing a quick way to set up a target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With version 0.12.0 we are introducing a quick way to set up a target.
```

Author: My thought on this one is that "With version 0.12.0" works as an adverbial phrase since it says _when_ we introduced the feature. Since the clause is at the beginning of the sentence, I think it should have the comma. Alternatively though, I think we could rephrase it without the comma:

> We are introducing a quick way to set up a target in version 0.12.0.

Reviewer: I can see that for sure! I like the short form that's less passive, and avoids "we"

```suggestion
Version 0.12.0 introduces a quick way to set up a target.
```

> Previously, you would need to define [hosts](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/hosts) within a [host set](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/host-sets), and then assign that to a [target](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/targets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, you would need to define [hosts](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/hosts) within a [host set](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/host-sets) and then assign that to a [target](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/targets).
```

Author: I think this sentence might need the comma, because it is 2 independent clauses joined by a coordinating conjunction.

Reviewer: Definitely, thanks for correcting me on this 👍

> The hosts contain the actual hostname or IP address of the computing resources that you want to connect to, and the target definition contains various connection parameters for those hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hosts contain the hostname or IP address of the computing resources, and the target definition contains various connection parameters for those hosts.
```

> Starting with version 0.12.0, you can specify the hostname or IP address directly within the target definition, negating the need to create hosts, host sets, or a host catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with version 0.12.0 the hostname or IP address can be specified directly within the target definition, without having to create hosts, host sets, or a host catalog.
```

> This functionality allows you to get started with Boundary quuickly, while still maintaining the same flexibility for more complex and production-like scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality allows you to get started with Boundary quickly while still maintaining the same flexibility for more complex and production-like scenarios.
```

For more information, refer to the [Target and Host Resources](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model#target-and-host-resources) documentation.

**Authentication improvements**: In previous versions, authenticating through the CLI required you to provide an [**Auth Method ID**](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/auth-methods).

> This value could be difficult to find, if you did not previously save it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This value could be difficult to find if you did not previously save it.
```

> Starting in version 0.12.0, the Boundary CLI no longer requires an **Auth Method ID**, and will use the default **Auth Method ID**, if none is provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting in version 0.12.0 the Boundary CLI no longer requires an **Auth Method ID**, and will use the default **Auth Method ID** if none is provided.
```

The built-in password auth method is now marked as **Primary** when an HCP Boundary cluster is deployed.

> **JSON credentials**: In previous versions, Boundary only supported two types of static credentials: Username/Password and SSH Private Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**JSON credentials**: In previous versions Boundary only supported two types of static credentials: Username/Password and SSH Private Key.
```

In version 0.12.0, we are releasing a new type of credential to the static credential store.
You can now create and broker JSON blobs to authorized users at session establishment time.

For more information, refer to the [JSON credentials](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/credentials#json) documentation.

**Job run table maintenance**: A new job was added to automaticaly clean up completed runs from the `job_run` table.

> It deletes any existing completed jobs on a regular interval to improve the speed of index creation, and to help manage the size of your Boundary database.

Reviewer 2: I think we can cut out the index part but the rest looks good, thanks!
```suggestion
It deletes any existing completed jobs on a regular interval to help manage the size of your Boundary database.
```

## Deprecations and changes

Boundary version 0.12.0 has the following deprecations or changes:

- A vulnerability in Boundary was identified such that when a Key Management Service (KMS) was defined in Boundary's configuration file with the intent of using the KMS to encrypt the credentials stored on disk, new credentials created after a rotation may not have been encrypted via the intended KMS.
This would result in the credentials being stored in plain text on the Boundary PKI worker's disk.
This vulnerability, CVE-2023-0690, was fixed in Boundary 0.12.0.

> - In this release, there was a change to the initial components that are created when you run Boundary in dev mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In this release there is a change to the initial components that are created when you run Boundary in dev mode.
```

The `boundary dev` command now creates two TCP targets: one is created using the host source, and the other is created using the `address` field.

> Note that this may affect you, if you use the default target for testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that this may affect you if you use the default target for testing.
```

- In Boundary 0.9.0, targets were updated to require a default port value.
This had been the original intention; it was a mistake that it was optional.
Unfortunately, due to a separate defect in the update verification logic for static hosts, it was possible for a host to be updated (but not created) with a port.
This meant that targets could use ports attached to host addresses, which was not the intention and lead to confusing behavior across different installations.

  In this version, updating static hosts no longer allows ports to be part of the address.

>   When authorizing a session, any port on such a host will be ignored in favor of the default port on the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When authorizing a session any port on such a host will be ignored in favor of the default port on the target.
```

>   In Boundary 0.14.0, this will become an error instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In Boundary 0.14.0 this will become an error instead.
```

>   As a consequence, it means that the fallback logic for targets that did not have a default port defined is no longer in service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This means that the fallback logic for targets that did not have a default port defined is no longer in service.
```

  All targets must now have a default port defined.

> - With the introduction of `vault-ssh-certificate` credential libraries, the Vault credential library subtype is being renamed to `vault-generic` to denote it as a credential library that can be used in a generalized way to issue credentials from Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- With the introduction of `vault-ssh-certificate` credential libraries the Vault credential library subtype is being renamed to `vault-generic` to denote it as a credential library that can be used in a generalized way to issue credentials from Vault.
```
